# Blood-Pressure-Probability-and-Statistics
Blood pressure is the pressure that the blood exerts against the walls of the arteries. When  physicians or nurses measure your blood pressure, they take two readings. The systolic blood  pressure is the pressure when the heart is contracting and therefore pumping. The diastolic  blood pressure is the pressure in the arteries when the heart is relaxing. The diastolic blood  pressure is always the lower of the two readings. Blood pressure varies from one person to  another. It will also vary for a single individual from day to day and even within a given day.  If your blood pressure is too high, it can lead to a stroke or a heart attack. If it is too low, blood  will not get to your extremities and you may feel dizzy. Low blood pressure is usually not  serious.  So, what should your blood pressure be? A systolic blood pressure of 120 would be considered  normal. One of 150 would be high. But since blood pressure varies with gender and increases  with age, a better gauge of the relative standing of your blood pressure would be obtained  by comparing it with the population of blood pressures of all persons of your gender and age  in the country. Rather than supplying the whole data set, a very large sample selected from it  has been provided you in the course webpage. The blood pressure data on 200 persons, 100 men and 100 women between the ages of 15 and 20, are found at the course webpage (use  your Studend ID to generate the data specific for your homework). The data are part of a  health survey conducted by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), in US. Entries for each  person include that person’s age and systolic and diastolic blood pressures at the time the  blood pressure was recorded.  1. Describe the variables that have been measured in this survey. Are the variables  quantitative or qualitative? Discrete or continuous? Are the data univariate, bivariate, or  multivariate?  2. What types of graphical methods are available for describing this data set? What types of  questions could be answered using various types of graphical techniques?  3. Find the followings for men (denoted with gender value 0) and women (denoted with  gender value 1) both for the systolic blood pressure and the diastolic blood pressure. a.) Calculate the sample mean, 𝑥̅. b.) Calculate the sample variance, s2 . c.) Find the sample standard deviation, s. d.) Find the lower and upper quartiles. e.) What are the maximum and minimum values? f.) Calculate the range. g.) Compare the range and the standard deviation. The range is approximately how many  standard deviations? h.) What is the median? i) Calculate the IQR. j.) Calculate five-number summaries. k.) Construct box plot for the data set. Are there any outliers? What does the box plot tell you  about the shape of the distribution? l.) Construct and interpret stem-and-leaf plot m.) Construct and interpret histograms n.) Draw a dotplot of this data set. Are the data mound shaped? o.) Can you use Tchebysheff’s Theorem to describe this data set? Why or why not? p.) Can you use the Empirical Rule to describe this data set? Why or why not? q.) Given data sets of two groups, construct and interpret a comparative dotplot to compare  the groups r.) Construct a relative frequency histogram for these data. How would you describe the shape  of the distribution? s.) Find the z-scores for the largest and smallest observations. Would you consider them to  be outliers? Why or why not?
